tips-and-workarounds/tips-and-workarounds-readme.md, before:

<properties pageTitle="Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova tips & workarounds"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />

# Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova tips & workarounds
This repository contains a set tips and workarounds for [Apache Cordova](http://cordova.apache.org) generally in addition to the **Visual Studio 2015 RC** release of **[Tools for Apache Cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)**.

**Note that this documentation does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

##Categories
1. [General](general/tips-and-workarounds-general-readme.md)
1. [Android](android/tips-and-workarounds-android-readme.md)
1. [iOS and OSX](ios/tips-and-workarounds-android-readme.md)
1. Windows
1. Windows Phone 8 (Silverlight)

### Help us improve our documentation
Help us improve out docuementaiton by sending us a pull-request or opening a [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-docs/issues/new).

## More Information
* [Read tutorials and learn about tips, tricks, and known issues](../cordova-docs-readme.md)
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Read MSDN docs on using Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533794)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)
* [Email us your questions](mailto:/vscordovatools@microsoft.com)

Commit message:

Adding depreciated file labels
Adding depreciated file labels

tips-and-workarounds/tips-and-workarounds-readme.md, after:

<properties pageTitle="Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova tips & workarounds"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />


# **NOTE:** This article is depreciated. Current articles can be found in the [Articles folder](/articles/).

# Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova tips & workarounds
This repository contains a set tips and workarounds for [Apache Cordova](http://cordova.apache.org) generally in addition to the **Visual Studio 2015 RC** release of **[Tools for Apache Cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)**.

**Note that this documentation does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

##Categories
1. [General](general/tips-and-workarounds-general-readme.md)
1. [Android](android/tips-and-workarounds-android-readme.md)
1. [iOS and OSX](ios/tips-and-workarounds-android-readme.md)
1. Windows
1. Windows Phone 8 (Silverlight)

### Help us improve our documentation
Help us improve out docuementaiton by sending us a pull-request or opening a [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-docs/issues/new).

## More Information
* [Read tutorials and learn about tips, tricks, and known issues](../cordova-docs-readme.md)
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Read MSDN docs on using Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533794)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)
* [Email us your questions](mailto:/vscordovatools@microsoft.com)
