package-and-publish/get-your-app-approved.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Get your Apache Cordova app approved by the app stores | Cordova"
   description="description"
   services="na"
   documentationCenter=""
   authors="Mikejo5000"
   tags=""/>
<tags
   ms.service="na"
   ms.devlang="javascript"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="mobile-multiple"
   ms.workload="na"
   ms.date="09/10/2015"
   ms.author="mikejo"/>
# Get your Apache Cordova app approved by the app stores

Before you can publish your app and get it to your customers, it will have to get app store approval. The key to approval is what your app does and how it does it. While each store has a different process and a different list of requirements, a well-designed app is more likely to receive approval on any platform. These articles are a starting point for designing apps that have a high likelihood of approval.

## Google Play (Android)

[Launch Checklist](http://developer.android.com/distribute/tools/launch-checklist.html)

Google provides an extensive and detailed checklist for getting your app ready for distribution.

[Core App Quality](http://developer.android.com/distribute/essentials/quality/core.html)

This topic lists an extensive array of tests your app should pass before submission to Google Play.

[Design](http://developer.android.com/design/index.html)

The content in this site describes how to design a great Android app.

## The Apple App Store (iOS)

Apple provides a lot of guidance on app design. Designing a great app isn't about adding a camera feature or a push notification. UI elements are a key piece of the experience, but UI elements alone do not create a great design.

*   [Designing Great Apps](https://developer.apple.com/design/)

*   [UI Design Dos and Don'ts](https://developer.apple.com/design/tips/)

*   [Common App Rejections](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/rejections/)

*   [App Store Review Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/)

[PhoneGap, Apple Rejections & UI/UX Guidelines](http://www.tricedesigns.com/2012/10/03/phonegap-apple-rejections-uiux-guidelines/)

This blog post by Andrew Trice interprets the Apple guidelines around how they apply to HTML, CSS, and JavaScript development. He debunks the myths and gives specific suggestions about how to make your app compliant with the Apple guidelines.

[iOS App Store Approval Tips and Tricks](http://blogs.telerik.com/appbuilder/posts/13-05-16/ios-app-store-approval-tips-and-tricks)

This blog by Rob Lauer post describes the approval processes for Apple and Android and includes a checklist of common pitfalls.

[Rejected: How to Guarantee Your App Won't Get Approved | PhoneGap Day EU 2013](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-xIugmJ6ks4)

In this video, Rob Lauer discusses common problems and solutions in the app-approval process.

[PhoneGap and the Apple Store](http://www.awesome-robot.com/article/PhoneGap_and_the_Apple_Store/)

This blog post by Brett Livaudais lists specific things that will get your app rejected. It also gives some specific guidance about differentiating a Web experience from an app experience.

[HOWTO: Create native-looking iPhone/iPad applications from HTML, CSS and JavaScript](http://matt.might.net/articles/how-to-native-iphone-ipad-apps-in-javascript/)

This blog post by Matt Might provides code examples and how-to information for making your app look more like a native iOS app and less like a Web page.

[Create an Apache Cordova App – Build a UI](../getting-started/create-first-app-using-vs-tools-apache-cordova.md#BuildUI)

This topic discusses designing your UI and some popular UI frameworks such as [Ionic](http://ionicframework.com/) and [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/).

## The Windows Phone Store

[Windows and Windows Phone Store Policies](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/dn764944.aspx)

Adhering to the Windows Phone Store policies will help you make choices that enhance your app’s appeal and audience.

[Microsoft Design Priniciples](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh781237.aspx)

Following a foundation of design principles will delight your users.


![Download the tools](media/get-your-app-approved/approved-download-link.png) [Get the Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova](http://aka.ms/mchm38) or [learn more](https://www.visualstudio.com/cordova-vs.aspx)

Commit message:

Adding depreciated file labels
Adding depreciated file labels

package-and-publish/get-your-app-approved.md, after:

<properties
   pageTitle="Get your Apache Cordova app approved by the app stores | Cordova"
   description="description"
   services="na"
   documentationCenter=""
   authors="Mikejo5000"
   tags=""/>
<tags
   ms.service="na"
   ms.devlang="javascript"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="mobile-multiple"
   ms.workload="na"
   ms.date="09/10/2015"
   ms.author="mikejo"/>

# **NOTE:** This article is depreciated. Current articles can be found in the [Articles folder](/articles/).

# Get your Apache Cordova app approved by the app stores

Before you can publish your app and get it to your customers, it will have to get app store approval. The key to approval is what your app does and how it does it. While each store has a different process and a different list of requirements, a well-designed app is more likely to receive approval on any platform. These articles are a starting point for designing apps that have a high likelihood of approval.

## Google Play (Android)

[Launch Checklist](http://developer.android.com/distribute/tools/launch-checklist.html)

Google provides an extensive and detailed checklist for getting your app ready for distribution.

[Core App Quality](http://developer.android.com/distribute/essentials/quality/core.html)

This topic lists an extensive array of tests your app should pass before submission to Google Play.

[Design](http://developer.android.com/design/index.html)

The content in this site describes how to design a great Android app.

## The Apple App Store (iOS)

Apple provides a lot of guidance on app design. Designing a great app isn't about adding a camera feature or a push notification. UI elements are a key piece of the experience, but UI elements alone do not create a great design.

*   [Designing Great Apps](https://developer.apple.com/design/)

*   [UI Design Dos and Don'ts](https://developer.apple.com/design/tips/)

*   [Common App Rejections](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/rejections/)

*   [App Store Review Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/)

[PhoneGap, Apple Rejections & UI/UX Guidelines](http://www.tricedesigns.com/2012/10/03/phonegap-apple-rejections-uiux-guidelines/)

This blog post by Andrew Trice interprets the Apple guidelines around how they apply to HTML, CSS, and JavaScript development. He debunks the myths and gives specific suggestions about how to make your app compliant with the Apple guidelines.

[iOS App Store Approval Tips and Tricks](http://blogs.telerik.com/appbuilder/posts/13-05-16/ios-app-store-approval-tips-and-tricks)

This blog by Rob Lauer post describes the approval processes for Apple and Android and includes a checklist of common pitfalls.

[Rejected: How to Guarantee Your App Won't Get Approved | PhoneGap Day EU 2013](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-xIugmJ6ks4)

In this video, Rob Lauer discusses common problems and solutions in the app-approval process.

[PhoneGap and the Apple Store](http://www.awesome-robot.com/article/PhoneGap_and_the_Apple_Store/)

This blog post by Brett Livaudais lists specific things that will get your app rejected. It also gives some specific guidance about differentiating a Web experience from an app experience.

[HOWTO: Create native-looking iPhone/iPad applications from HTML, CSS and JavaScript](http://matt.might.net/articles/how-to-native-iphone-ipad-apps-in-javascript/)

This blog post by Matt Might provides code examples and how-to information for making your app look more like a native iOS app and less like a Web page.

[Create an Apache Cordova App – Build a UI](../getting-started/create-first-app-using-vs-tools-apache-cordova.md#BuildUI)

This topic discusses designing your UI and some popular UI frameworks such as [Ionic](http://ionicframework.com/) and [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/).

## The Windows Phone Store

[Windows and Windows Phone Store Policies](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/dn764944.aspx)

Adhering to the Windows Phone Store policies will help you make choices that enhance your app’s appeal and audience.

[Microsoft Design Priniciples](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh781237.aspx)

Following a foundation of design principles will delight your users.


![Download the tools](media/get-your-app-approved/approved-download-link.png) [Get the Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova](http://aka.ms/mchm38) or [learn more](https://www.visualstudio.com/cordova-vs.aspx)
