Readme.md, before:

# Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova
This repository contains a set of documents and tutorials for the **Visual Studio 2015** release of **[Tools for Apache Cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova).**

**Note that, with the exception of known issues, this documentation does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

<a name="tutorials"></a>
## Tutorials
1. [Using Apache Cordova 5](./tutorial-cordova-5)
	1. [An Introduction to Cordova 5 Security](./tutorial-cordova-5/cordova-5-security.md)
1. [Using Gulp with your Cordova projects](./tutorial-gulp)
	1. [Using Gulp to Build Cordova Projects](./tutorial-gulp/gulp-ci.md)
	1. [Invoking Gulp Tasks During a Cordova Build and the VS Task Runner Explorer](./tutorial-gulp/gulp-task-runner-explorer.md)
	1. [Compiling TypeScript with Gulp](./tutorial-gulp/gulp-typescript.md)
1. [Getting Started Building Cordova Apps in a Team / Continuous Integration (CI) Environment](./tutorial-team-build)
	1. [Getting Started with Cordova & TFS 2015 or Visual Studio Online](./tutorial-team-build/TFS2015.md)
	1. [Getting Started with Cordova & TFS 2013](./tutorial-team-build/TFS2013.md)
	1. [Getting Started with Cordova & Jenkins CI](./tutorial-team-build/Jenkins.md)
	1. [General CI Guidence, Information, and Troubleshooting](./tutorial-team-build/General.md)
1. [Package & Publish your Cordova Applications](./tutorial-package-publish)
1. [Using TypeScript with your Cordova projects](./getting-started/tutorial-typescript.md)
1. [Build and Simulate iOS in the Cloud](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=618476) (MSDN)
1. [Build a Cordova app for iOS using Parallels](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=618477) (MSDN)
1. [Run the Android Emulator on OSX when using Windows in Parallels](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=618478) (MSDN)
1. [Convert a Cordova Project to a PhoneGap Project](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=618479) (MSDN)

<a name="tips"></a>
## Tips & Workarounds
1. [General](./tips-and-workarounds/general)
1. [Android](./tips-and-workarounds/android)
1. [iOS and OSX](./tips-and-workarounds/ios)
1. [Performance](./tips-and-workarounds/performance)


<a name="knownissues"></a>
## Known Issues
1. [General](./known-issues/known-issues-general.md)
1. [Debugger](./known-issues/known-issues-debugger.md)
1. Apache Cordova & Ripple
	1. [Apache Cordova & Ripple General](./known-issues/known-issues-ripple-cordova.md)
	1. [Apache Cordova 5.x.x](./known-issues/known-issues-cordova5.md)
1. Platform Specific
	1. [Android](./known-issues/known-issues-android.md)
	1. [iOS](./known-issues/known-issues-ios.md)
	1. [Windows, Windows Phone 8.1](./known-issues/known-issues-windows.md)
1. Visual Studio Release Specific
	1. [Visual Studio 2015](./known-issues/known-issues-vs2015.md)
	1. [CTP 3.1 / Visual Studio 2013](./known-issues/known-issues-vs2013.md)

## Help us improve our documentation
Help us improve out docuementaiton by sending us a pull-request or opening a [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-docs/issues/new)


## More Information
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Read MSDN docs on using Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533794)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)
* [Email us your questions](mailto:/vscordovatools@microsoft.com)


## Terms of Use
By downloading and running this project, you agree to the license terms of the third party application software, Microsoft products, and components to be installed. 

The third party software and products are provided to you by third parties. You are responsible for reading and accepting the relevant license terms for all software that will be installed. Microsoft grants you no rights to third party software.


## License
Unless otherwise mentioned, the code samples are released under the MIT license.

```
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

Commit message:

Adding a link to the Bower tutorial

Readme.md, after:

# Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova
This repository contains a set of documents and tutorials for the **Visual Studio 2015** release of **[Tools for Apache Cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova).**

**Note that, with the exception of known issues, this documentation does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

<a name="tutorials"></a>
## Tutorials
1. [Using Apache Cordova 5](./tutorial-cordova-5)
	1. [An Introduction to Cordova 5 Security](./tutorial-cordova-5/cordova-5-security.md)
1. [Using Gulp with your Cordova projects](./tutorial-gulp)
	1. [Using Gulp to Build Cordova Projects](./tutorial-gulp/gulp-ci.md)
	1. [Invoking Gulp Tasks During a Cordova Build and the VS Task Runner Explorer](./tutorial-gulp/gulp-task-runner-explorer.md)
	1. [Compiling TypeScript with Gulp](./tutorial-gulp/gulp-typescript.md)
1. [Getting Started Building Cordova Apps in a Team / Continuous Integration (CI) Environment](./tutorial-team-build)
	1. [Getting Started with Cordova & TFS 2015 or Visual Studio Online](./tutorial-team-build/TFS2015.md)
	1. [Getting Started with Cordova & TFS 2013](./tutorial-team-build/TFS2013.md)
	1. [Getting Started with Cordova & Jenkins CI](./tutorial-team-build/Jenkins.md)
	1. [General CI Guidence, Information, and Troubleshooting](./tutorial-team-build/General.md)
1. [Package & Publish your Cordova Applications](./tutorial-package-publish)
1. [Using TypeScript with your Cordova projects](./getting-started/tutorial-typescript.md)
2. [Using the Bower package manager with your Cordova projects](./getting-started/tutorial-using-bower.md)
1. [Build and Simulate iOS in the Cloud](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=618476) (MSDN)
1. [Build a Cordova app for iOS using Parallels](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=618477) (MSDN)
1. [Run the Android Emulator on OSX when using Windows in Parallels](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=618478) (MSDN)
1. [Convert a Cordova Project to a PhoneGap Project](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=618479) (MSDN)

<a name="tips"></a>
## Tips & Workarounds
1. [General](./tips-and-workarounds/general)
1. [Android](./tips-and-workarounds/android)
1. [iOS and OSX](./tips-and-workarounds/ios)
1. [Performance](./tips-and-workarounds/performance)


<a name="knownissues"></a>
## Known Issues
1. [General](./known-issues/known-issues-general.md)
1. [Debugger](./known-issues/known-issues-debugger.md)
1. Apache Cordova & Ripple
	1. [Apache Cordova & Ripple General](./known-issues/known-issues-ripple-cordova.md)
	1. [Apache Cordova 5.x.x](./known-issues/known-issues-cordova5.md)
1. Platform Specific
	1. [Android](./known-issues/known-issues-android.md)
	1. [iOS](./known-issues/known-issues-ios.md)
	1. [Windows, Windows Phone 8.1](./known-issues/known-issues-windows.md)
1. Visual Studio Release Specific
	1. [Visual Studio 2015](./known-issues/known-issues-vs2015.md)
	1. [CTP 3.1 / Visual Studio 2013](./known-issues/known-issues-vs2013.md)

## Help us improve our documentation
Help us improve out docuementaiton by sending us a pull-request or opening a [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-docs/issues/new)


## More Information
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Read MSDN docs on using Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533794)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)
* [Email us your questions](mailto:/vscordovatools@microsoft.com)


## Terms of Use
By downloading and running this project, you agree to the license terms of the third party application software, Microsoft products, and components to be installed. 

The third party software and products are provided to you by third parties. You are responsible for reading and accepting the relevant license terms for all software that will be installed. Microsoft grants you no rights to third party software.


## License
Unless otherwise mentioned, the code samples are released under the MIT license.

```
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```
