tutorial-gulp/tutorial-gulp-readme.md, before:

<properties pageTitle="Automate tasks for your Cordova project by using Gulp"
  description="Automate tasks for your Cordova project by using Gulp"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />

#Automate tasks for your Cordova project by using Gulp
**Note that this documentation applies to Visual Studio 2015 and does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

[Gulp](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533803) is an increasingly popular JavaScript based task runner with a large number of [useful plugins](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533790) designed to automate common “tasks” for everything from compilation, to packaging, deployment, or simply copying files around. Both Gulp and the [Apache Cordova Command Line interface](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533773) (CLI) are Node.js based which makes the two highly complementary technologies. In this tutorial we will cover a few ways Gulp can be used with Cordova:

1.  [Using Gulp to Build Cordova Projects](gulp-ci.md) - Includes information on using Gulp in a Team / CI Environment
2.  [Invoking Gulp Tasks During a Cordova Build and the VS Task Runner Explorer](gulp-task-runner-explorer.md)
3.  [Compiling TypeScript](tutorial-typescript.md)

## More Information
* [Read tutorials and learn about tips, tricks, and known issues](../cordova-docs-readme.md)
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)

Commit message:

Adding depreciated file labels
Adding depreciated file labels

tutorial-gulp/tutorial-gulp-readme.md, after:

<properties pageTitle="Automate tasks for your Cordova project by using Gulp"
  description="Automate tasks for your Cordova project by using Gulp"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />


# **NOTE:** This article is depreciated. Current articles can be found in the [Articles folder](/articles/).

#Automate tasks for your Cordova project by using Gulp
**Note that this documentation applies to Visual Studio 2015 and does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

[Gulp](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533803) is an increasingly popular JavaScript based task runner with a large number of [useful plugins](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533790) designed to automate common “tasks” for everything from compilation, to packaging, deployment, or simply copying files around. Both Gulp and the [Apache Cordova Command Line interface](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533773) (CLI) are Node.js based which makes the two highly complementary technologies. In this tutorial we will cover a few ways Gulp can be used with Cordova:

1.  [Using Gulp to Build Cordova Projects](gulp-ci.md) - Includes information on using Gulp in a Team / CI Environment
2.  [Invoking Gulp Tasks During a Cordova Build and the VS Task Runner Explorer](gulp-task-runner-explorer.md)
3.  [Compiling TypeScript](tutorial-typescript.md)

## More Information
* [Read tutorials and learn about tips, tricks, and known issues](../cordova-docs-readme.md)
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)
