tutorial-team-build/TFS2013.md, before:

#Using Tools for Apache Cordova with Team Foundation Services 2013
**This tutorial is part of a [series of tutorials](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533743) on building Visual Studio 2015 Tools for Apache Cordova projects in a Team / CI environment and does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

Tools for Apache Cordova is designed to work with a number of different team build systems since the projects it creates are standard [Apache Cordova Command Line interface](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533773) (CLI) projects. However, you may want to use Team Foundation Services 2013 build agents.

It is important to note that as a general recommendation, we encourage the use of [TFS 2015's next generation cross-platform build system](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533772) and [Gulp](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533742) based build capabilities rather than TFS 2013 or MSBuild since this provides the ability build directly from TFS on Windows or OSX. See the [TFS 2015 tutorial](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533771) for details. Visual Studio Online's support for building Cordova apps will focus on the Gulp based TFS 2015 approach rather than MSBuild. 

This tutorial will describe how to configure TFS to build a Tools for Apache Cordova project using MSBuild and the steps provided here will generally apply to using MSBuild with TFS 2015 as well.

**Troubleshooting Tip:** Be aware that we reccomend against adding the "platforms" folder or the following json files in the "plugins" folder into source control: android.json, ios.json, remote_ios.json, windows.json, and wp8.json. See "What to Add to Source Control" in the [general team build tutorial](./README.md) for additional details.

##Initial Setup
Before getting started with setting up your TFS Build Agent, you should install Visual Studio 2015 with the Tools for Apache Cordova option. You will also want to select the Windows / Windows Phone 8.1 tools and the Windows Phone 8.0 tools if you want to build for any of these platforms. From there you will want to configure a build agent on the server you have installed Visual Studio 2015.

-   See [Tools for Apache Cordova documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533794) for setup details on Visual Studio 2015.
-   See [Team Foundation 2013 Build documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533786) for setup details on Team Foundation Services 2013.

Note that you may also use a stand-alone build agent integrated with Visual Studio Online.

**Troubleshooting Tip:** See ["Internet Access & Proxy Setup" in the general CI tutorial](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533743) if your build servers have limited Internet connectivity or require routing traffic through a proxy.

##Common Build Definition Parameters & Environment Variables
###Updated Build Process Template
Before you get started, it's important to note that you will need to use v14 of MSBuild when building a Tools for Apache Cordova project. Build definition templates that ship with TFS 2013 support v11 and v12. As a result, you will need to create a modified TFS Build Process Template for TFS to use MSBuild v14.0. To do this, you can simply download the v12 template (or your own custom one) and append ToolVersion="14.0" to the end of the **RunMSBuild** element and upload it as a new template. Ex:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<mtba:RunMSBuild ToolVersion="14.0" DisplayName="Run MSBuild" OutputLocation="[OutputLocation]" CleanBuild="[CleanBuild]" CommandLineArguments="[String.Format(&quot;/p:SkipInvalidConfigurations=true {0}&quot;, AdvancedBuildSettings.GetValue(Of String)(&quot;MSBuildArguments&quot;, String.Empty))]" ConfigurationsToBuild="[ConfigurationsToBuild]" ProjectsToBuild="[ProjectsToBuild]" ToolPlatform="[AdvancedBuildSettings.GetValue(Of String)(&quot;MSBuildPlatform&quot;, &quot;Auto&quot;)]" RunCodeAnalysis="[AdvancedBuildSettings.GetValue(Of String)(&quot;RunCodeAnalysis&quot;, &quot;AsConfigured&quot;)]" />
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

See [TFS 2013 documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533787) for additional information on modifying build process templates.

You can then [create a build definition](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533788) for your project and select this updated template.

###Getting Resulting Packages to Land in the Drop Folder

To get the resulting packages from the Cordova build process to land in the configured TFS drop folder, you will need to add in a simple post-build PowerShell script to your project.

First, create a PowerShell script called postbuild.ps1 in your project under a solution folder that contains the following script:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$packages = gci $Env:TF_BUILD_SOURCESDIRECTORY -recurse -include $("bin") | ?{ $_.PSIsContainer } | foreach { gci -Path $_.FullName -Recurse -include $("*.apk", "*.ipa", "*.plist", "*.xap") }
foreach ($file in $packages) {
	Copy $file $Env:TF_BUILD_BINARIESDIRECTORY
}
gci $Env:TF_BUILD_SOURCESDIRECTORY -recurse -include $("AppPackages") | ?{ $_.PSIsContainer } | Copy -Destination $Env:TF_BUILD_BINARIESDIRECTORY –Recurse -Force 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This will copy any .apk, .ipa, or .plist file from the project's "bin" folder to the drop location and will also grab generated AppPackages under the platforms/windows/AppPackages folder from your project. Place this script under a solution folder such as "build".

![Solution with Build Script](<media/tfs2013-1.png>)

Now, create a build definition if you have not done so already and add the PowerShell script as a post-build script under "Process =\> Build =\> Advanced =\> Post-build script path". The file will be under the solution so you will need include the solution folder name in the path. You will also want to ensure your build definition with the output location (Process =\> Build =\> 4. Output location) as "SingleFolder" rather than AsConfigured.

![Build Definition with PowerShell Script](<media/tfs2013-2.png>)

##Common Environment Variables
There are a set of environment variables that need to be made available to MSBuild. These can either be setup on your machine as system environment variables or using the "/p" option in your build definition (Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments).

**Note that whenever you set a system environment variable you will need to restart the build service to get it to pick up the change.**

| **Variable**      | **Required For**                   | **Purpose**                              | **Default Location (Visual Studio 2015)**          |
|:------------------|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------|
| **MDAVSIXDIR**    | Any operation                      | Location of the Tools for Apache Cordova VSIX. With Visual Studio 2015, its location is always the same. In VS 2013, you will need to search for the VSIX by finding a folder containing the "vs-mda-targets" folder.   | %PROGRAMFILES(x86)%\\Microsoft Visual Studio 14.0\\Common7\\IDE\\Extensions\\ApacheCordovaTools |
| **NODEJSDIR**     | Any operation                      | Location of Node.js                      | %PROGRAMFILES(x86)%\\nodejs |
| **NPMINSTALLDIR** | Any operation                      | Location to install npm packages when building. | %APPDATA%\\npm |
| **LANGNAME**      | Any operation                      | Language used for messaging from node scripts. | en-us |
| **GIT\_HOME**     | Optional: Plugins Acquired via Git | Location of the Git Command Line Tools   | %PROGRAMFILES(x86)%\\git|
| **GRADLE\_USER\_HOME**      | Optional | Overrides the default location Gradle build system dependencies should be installed when building Android using Cordova 5.0.0+ | If not specified, uses %HOME%\\.gradle |

## Building Android

If you have not already, create a build definition for your project. Note that currently you'll will need a separate build definition for each device platform you intend to target.

###Android Environment Variables

In addition to the common environment variables mentioned above, the following variable can either be set as system environment variables or semi-colon delimited using the "/p" option in your build definition (Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments).

**Note that whenever you set a system environment variable you will need to restart the build service to get it to pick up the change.**

| **Variable**      | **Required For** | **Purpose**                 | **Default Location (Visual Studio 2015)** |
|:------------------|:-----------------|:----------------------------|:------------------------------------------|
| **ANT\_HOME**     | Android          | Location of Ant             | C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Microsoft Visual Studio 14.0\\Apps\\apache-ant-1.9.3 |
| **ANDROID\_HOME** | Android          | Location of the Android SDK | C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Android\\android-sdk |
| **JAVA\_HOME**    | Android          | Location of Java            | C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Java\\jdk1.7.0\_55 |

##Android Build Definition Settings

In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build**| Platform to build| **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: Android** |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: emulator, ripple, or device. | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=AndroidDevice** |
 
##Building iOS
If you have not already, create a build definition for your project. Note that currently you'll will need a separate build definition for each device platform you intend to target. In addition you will need to have a remote build agent configured on an OSX machine. See [Tools for Apache Cordova documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533745) for details.

**Troubleshooting Tip:** See ["Troubleshooting Tips for Building on OSX" in the general CI tutorial](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533743) for tips on resolving common build errors that can occur when building Cordova projects on that operating system.

###iOS Environment Variables and Cert Setup
In addition to the common environment variables mentioned above, the following variable can either be set as system environment variables or semi-colon delimited using the "/p" option in your build definition (Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments).

Using an environment variable is most useful when you want a single build definition to be able to be used with different remote build agents originating from different TFS build agents and thus do not want to have the agent URI in the build definition itself.

| **Release** | **Agent** |**Variable**             | **Required For** | **Purpose**                              | **Example**                              |
|:--|:--|:-------------------------|:-----------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| Any | | Any **iOSRemoteSecureBuild** | iOS | Indicates whether a secure connection should be used to connect to the agent | true |
| VS 2015 **RTM** or later | remoteagent | **iOSRemoteBuildServer** | iOS | URI of the iOS remote agent. Form: <br /> http(s)://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/cordova <br /> Use "https" in secure mode. | https://chux-mini.local:3000/cordova |
| VS 2015 **RC** or earlier | vs-mda-remote | **iOSRemoteBuildServer** | iOS | URI of the iOS remote agent. Form: <br /> http(s)://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/ <br /> Use "https" in secure mode. | https://chux-mini.local:3000/ |

By far the easiest way to import the client SSL certificate used for secure remote build is to simply start up Visual Studio and configure the remote agent there. This will import the client SSL cert into your local certificate store so it can be used during build. See [Tools for Apache Cordova documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533745) for details.

**Note: You also need to configure the TFS build service on your build server to run using the same user that you used to log in and configure Visual Studio.**

![Build Service with User](<media/tfs2013-3.png>)

#### Manual Import of SSL Cert
However, it is also possible to manually import the SSL cert by following these steps:

1.  Generate a security PIN. This automatically occurs the first time you start up the remote build agent but you can also generate a new one using the following command:
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
	vs-mda-remote generateClientCert
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

2.  Get the generated .p12 file from the agent using the following URI in a browser using the host, port, and PIN from the agent output. **Be sure you start vs-mda-remote if it is not running before accessing this URI.**
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
	https://<host>:<port>/certs/<pin>
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3.  Ignore the SSL security warning

4.  Download the .p12 file and save it. **Note: For security reasons, this PIN will be automatically invalidated after you download the file.** You may, however, use the cert file on multiple machines if needed.

6.  You now simply open the p12 file from the file system to import the cert using the Certificate Import Wizard that appears.

###iOS Build Definition Settings

In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build** | Platform to build                        | **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: iOS** |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: simulator, ripple, or device.  | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=iOSLocalDevice** |

##Building Windows / Windows Phone 8.1
If you have not already, create a build definition for your project. Note that currently you'll will need a separate build definition for each device platform you intend to target.

###Windows 8.1 Build Definition Settings
In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build** | Platform to build | **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: One or more of the following depending on the chipsets you need to support:** <br/> Windows-AnyCPU <br/> Windows-ARM <br/> Windows-x64 <br/> Windows-x86 |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: simulator or device.  | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=WindowsLocal**       |

###Windows Phone 8.1 Build Definition Settings
In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build** | Platform to build | **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: Windows Phone (Universal)** |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: emulator or device.  | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=PhoneDevice** |

##Building Windows Phone 8.0
If you have not already, create a build definition for your project. Note that currently you'll will need a separate build definition for each device platform you intend to target.

###Build Definition Settings
In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build** | Platform to build | **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: Windows Phone 8** |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: emulator or device.  | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=PhoneDevice** |

## More Information
* [Learn about other Team Build / CI options](README.md)
* [Read tutorials and learn about tips, tricks, and known issues](../Readme.md)
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Read MSDN docs on using Visual Studo Tools for Apache Cordova](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533794)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)
* [Email us your questions](mailto:/vscordovatools@microsoft.com)

Commit message:

A correction to remoteagent and formatting change

tutorial-team-build/TFS2013.md, after:

#Using Tools for Apache Cordova with Team Foundation Services 2013
**This tutorial is part of a [series of tutorials](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533743) on building Visual Studio 2015 Tools for Apache Cordova projects in a Team / CI environment and does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

Tools for Apache Cordova is designed to work with a number of different team build systems since the projects it creates are standard [Apache Cordova Command Line interface](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533773) (CLI) projects. However, you may want to use Team Foundation Services 2013 build agents.

It is important to note that as a general recommendation, we encourage the use of [TFS 2015's next generation cross-platform build system](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533772) and [Gulp](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533742) based build capabilities rather than TFS 2013 or MSBuild since this provides the ability build directly from TFS on Windows or OSX. See the [TFS 2015 tutorial](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533771) for details. Visual Studio Online's support for building Cordova apps will focus on the Gulp based TFS 2015 approach rather than MSBuild. 

This tutorial will describe how to configure TFS to build a Tools for Apache Cordova project using MSBuild and the steps provided here will generally apply to using MSBuild with TFS 2015 as well.

**Troubleshooting Tip:** Be aware that we reccomend against adding the "platforms" folder or the following json files in the "plugins" folder into source control: android.json, ios.json, remote_ios.json, windows.json, and wp8.json. See "What to Add to Source Control" in the [general team build tutorial](./README.md) for additional details.

##Initial Setup
Before getting started with setting up your TFS Build Agent, you should install Visual Studio 2015 with the Tools for Apache Cordova option. You will also want to select the Windows / Windows Phone 8.1 tools and the Windows Phone 8.0 tools if you want to build for any of these platforms. From there you will want to configure a build agent on the server you have installed Visual Studio 2015.

-   See [Tools for Apache Cordova documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533794) for setup details on Visual Studio 2015.
-   See [Team Foundation 2013 Build documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533786) for setup details on Team Foundation Services 2013.

Note that you may also use a stand-alone build agent integrated with Visual Studio Online.

**Troubleshooting Tip:** See ["Internet Access & Proxy Setup" in the general CI tutorial](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533743) if your build servers have limited Internet connectivity or require routing traffic through a proxy.

##Common Build Definition Parameters & Environment Variables
###Updated Build Process Template
Before you get started, it's important to note that you will need to use v14 of MSBuild when building a Tools for Apache Cordova project. Build definition templates that ship with TFS 2013 support v11 and v12. As a result, you will need to create a modified TFS Build Process Template for TFS to use MSBuild v14.0. To do this, you can simply download the v12 template (or your own custom one) and append ToolVersion="14.0" to the end of the **RunMSBuild** element and upload it as a new template. Ex:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<mtba:RunMSBuild ToolVersion="14.0" DisplayName="Run MSBuild" OutputLocation="[OutputLocation]" CleanBuild="[CleanBuild]" CommandLineArguments="[String.Format(&quot;/p:SkipInvalidConfigurations=true {0}&quot;, AdvancedBuildSettings.GetValue(Of String)(&quot;MSBuildArguments&quot;, String.Empty))]" ConfigurationsToBuild="[ConfigurationsToBuild]" ProjectsToBuild="[ProjectsToBuild]" ToolPlatform="[AdvancedBuildSettings.GetValue(Of String)(&quot;MSBuildPlatform&quot;, &quot;Auto&quot;)]" RunCodeAnalysis="[AdvancedBuildSettings.GetValue(Of String)(&quot;RunCodeAnalysis&quot;, &quot;AsConfigured&quot;)]" />
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

See [TFS 2013 documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533787) for additional information on modifying build process templates.

You can then [create a build definition](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533788) for your project and select this updated template.

###Getting Resulting Packages to Land in the Drop Folder

To get the resulting packages from the Cordova build process to land in the configured TFS drop folder, you will need to add in a simple post-build PowerShell script to your project.

First, create a PowerShell script called postbuild.ps1 in your project under a solution folder that contains the following script:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$packages = gci $Env:TF_BUILD_SOURCESDIRECTORY -recurse -include $("bin") | ?{ $_.PSIsContainer } | foreach { gci -Path $_.FullName -Recurse -include $("*.apk", "*.ipa", "*.plist", "*.xap") }
foreach ($file in $packages) {
	Copy $file $Env:TF_BUILD_BINARIESDIRECTORY
}
gci $Env:TF_BUILD_SOURCESDIRECTORY -recurse -include $("AppPackages") | ?{ $_.PSIsContainer } | Copy -Destination $Env:TF_BUILD_BINARIESDIRECTORY –Recurse -Force 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This will copy any .apk, .ipa, or .plist file from the project's "bin" folder to the drop location and will also grab generated AppPackages under the platforms/windows/AppPackages folder from your project. Place this script under a solution folder such as "build".

![Solution with Build Script](<media/tfs2013-1.png>)

Now, create a build definition if you have not done so already and add the PowerShell script as a post-build script under "Process =\> Build =\> Advanced =\> Post-build script path". The file will be under the solution so you will need include the solution folder name in the path. You will also want to ensure your build definition with the output location (Process =\> Build =\> 4. Output location) as "SingleFolder" rather than AsConfigured.

![Build Definition with PowerShell Script](<media/tfs2013-2.png>)

##Common Environment Variables
There are a set of environment variables that need to be made available to MSBuild. These can either be setup on your machine as system environment variables or using the "/p" option in your build definition (Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments).

**Note that whenever you set a system environment variable you will need to restart the build service to get it to pick up the change.**

| **Variable**      | **Required For**                   | **Purpose**                              | **Default Location (Visual Studio 2015)**          |
|:------------------|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------|
| **MDAVSIXDIR**    | Any operation                      | Location of the Tools for Apache Cordova VSIX. With Visual Studio 2015, its location is always the same. In VS 2013, you will need to search for the VSIX by finding a folder containing the "vs-mda-targets" folder.   | %PROGRAMFILES(x86)%\\Microsoft Visual Studio 14.0\\Common7\\IDE\\Extensions\\ApacheCordovaTools |
| **NODEJSDIR**     | Any operation                      | Location of Node.js                      | %PROGRAMFILES(x86)%\\nodejs |
| **NPMINSTALLDIR** | Any operation                      | Location to install npm packages when building. | %APPDATA%\\npm |
| **LANGNAME**      | Any operation                      | Language used for messaging from node scripts. | en-us |
| **GIT\_HOME**     | Optional: Plugins Acquired via Git | Location of the Git Command Line Tools   | %PROGRAMFILES(x86)%\\git|
| **GRADLE\_USER\_HOME**      | Optional | Overrides the default location Gradle build system dependencies should be installed when building Android using Cordova 5.0.0+ | If not specified, uses %HOME%\\.gradle |

## Building Android

If you have not already, create a build definition for your project. Note that currently you'll will need a separate build definition for each device platform you intend to target.

###Android Environment Variables

In addition to the common environment variables mentioned above, the following variable can either be set as system environment variables or semi-colon delimited using the "/p" option in your build definition (Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments).

**Note that whenever you set a system environment variable you will need to restart the build service to get it to pick up the change.**

| **Variable**      | **Required For** | **Purpose**                 | **Default Location (Visual Studio 2015)** |
|:------------------|:-----------------|:----------------------------|:------------------------------------------|
| **ANT\_HOME**     | Android          | Location of Ant             | C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Microsoft Visual Studio 14.0\\Apps\\apache-ant-1.9.3 |
| **ANDROID\_HOME** | Android          | Location of the Android SDK | C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Android\\android-sdk |
| **JAVA\_HOME**    | Android          | Location of Java            | C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Java\\jdk1.7.0\_55 |

##Android Build Definition Settings

In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build**| Platform to build| **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: Android** |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: emulator, ripple, or device. | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=AndroidDevice** |
 
##Building iOS
If you have not already, create a build definition for your project. Note that currently you'll will need a separate build definition for each device platform you intend to target. In addition you will need to have a remote build agent configured on an OSX machine. See [Tools for Apache Cordova documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533745) for details.

**Troubleshooting Tip:** See ["Troubleshooting Tips for Building on OSX" in the general CI tutorial](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533743) for tips on resolving common build errors that can occur when building Cordova projects on that operating system.

###iOS Environment Variables and Cert Setup
In addition to the common environment variables mentioned above, the following variable can either be set as system environment variables or semi-colon delimited using the "/p" option in your build definition (Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments).

Using an environment variable is most useful when you want a single build definition to be able to be used with different remote build agents originating from different TFS build agents and thus do not want to have the agent URI in the build definition itself.

**Note that Visual Studio 2015 RTM uses the a new remote agent** while VS 2015 RC still uses the legacy vs-mda-remote agent. See [the agent installation documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533745)) for installation details.

| **Release** | **Agent** |**Variable**             | **Required For** | **Purpose**                              | **Example**                              |
|:--|:--|:-------------------------|:-----------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| Any | Any | **iOSRemoteSecureBuild** | iOS | Indicates whether a secure connection should be used to connect to the agent | true |
| VS 2015 **RTM** or later | remoteagent | **iOSRemoteBuildServer** | iOS | URI of the iOS remote agent. Form: <br /> http(s)://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/cordova <br /> Use "https" in secure mode. | https://chux-mini.local:3000/cordova |
| VS 2015 **RC** or earlier | vs-mda-remote | **iOSRemoteBuildServer** | iOS | URI of the iOS remote agent. Form: <br /> http(s)://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/ <br /> Use "https" in secure mode. | https://chux-mini.local:3000/ |

By far the easiest way to import the client SSL certificate used for secure remote build is to simply start up Visual Studio and configure the remote agent there. This will import the client SSL cert into your local certificate store so it can be used during build. See [Tools for Apache Cordova documentation](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533745) for details.

**Note: You also need to configure the TFS build service on your build server to run using the same user that you used to log in and configure Visual Studio.**

![Build Service with User](<media/tfs2013-3.png>)

#### Manual Import of SSL Cert
However, it is also possible to manually import the SSL cert by following these steps:

1.  Generate a security PIN. This automatically occurs the first time you start up the remote build agent but you can also generate a new one using the following command:
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
	remoteagent generateClientCert
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

2.  Get the generated .p12 file from the agent using the following URI in a browser using the host, port, and PIN from the agent output. **Be sure you start vs-mda-remote if it is not running before accessing this URI.**
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
	https://<host>:<port>/cordova/certs/<pin>
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3.  Ignore the SSL security warning

4.  Download the .p12 file and save it. **Note: For security reasons, this PIN will be automatically invalidated after you download the file.** You may, however, use the cert file on multiple machines if needed.

6.  You now simply open the p12 file from the file system to import the cert using the Certificate Import Wizard that appears.

###iOS Build Definition Settings

In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build** | Platform to build                        | **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: iOS** |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: simulator, ripple, or device.  | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=iOSLocalDevice** |

##Building Windows / Windows Phone 8.1
If you have not already, create a build definition for your project. Note that currently you'll will need a separate build definition for each device platform you intend to target.

###Windows 8.1 Build Definition Settings
In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build** | Platform to build | **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: One or more of the following depending on the chipsets you need to support:** <br/> Windows-AnyCPU <br/> Windows-ARM <br/> Windows-x64 <br/> Windows-x86 |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: simulator or device.  | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=WindowsLocal**       |

###Windows Phone 8.1 Build Definition Settings
In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build** | Platform to build | **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: Windows Phone (Universal)** |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: emulator or device.  | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=PhoneDevice** |

##Building Windows Phone 8.0
If you have not already, create a build definition for your project. Note that currently you'll will need a separate build definition for each device platform you intend to target.

###Build Definition Settings
In addition to your other build definition settings, you will want to use the following build parameter values.

| **Parameter**                            | **Purpose**                              | **Value**                                |
|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| **Process =\> Items To Build =\> Configurations to Build** | Platform to build | **Configuration: Debug or Release** <br/> **Platform: Windows Phone 8** |
| **Process =\> Advanced =\> MSBuild Arguments** | Indicates the type of build to create: emulator or device.  | **/p:DebuggerFlavor=PhoneDevice** |

## More Information
* [Learn about other Team Build / CI options](README.md)
* [Read tutorials and learn about tips, tricks, and known issues](../Readme.md)
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Read MSDN docs on using Visual Studo Tools for Apache Cordova](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533794)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)
* [Email us your questions](mailto:/vscordovatools@microsoft.com)
