tutorial-team-build/tutorial-team-build-readme.md, before:

<properties pageTitle="Build Cordova apps in a Team / Continuous Integration (CI) environment"
  description="Build Cordova apps in a Team / Continuous Integration (CI) environment"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />

# Build Cordova apps in a Team / Continuous Integration (CI) environment
**Note that this documentation applies to Visual Studio 2015 and does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

With the release of Visual Studio 2015, you now have a number of options for how you can integrate Cordova apps with your favorite team / continuous integration (CI) server thanks to the fact that projects created in Visual Studio are standard [Apache Cordova Command Line Interface](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533773) (CLI) projects.

In this tutorial, we will cover how you can get your project running in nearly any CI system quickly using the [taco-team-build node module](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533736) and Gulp. Note that the method described here can be used with Visual Studio Online, TFS 2015, Jenkins, and others but will **not** work with TFS 2013. See [Tutorials on Specific CI Systems](#ci) for details.

##Walkthrough
To get going quickly, follow these steps:

1. **Install dependencies:** First, either install Visual Studio with the Tools for Apache Cordova option on your build server or simply install the pre-requisites for the platforms you are targeting separately. In brief:
    * Visual Studio itself is **only** required if you are building for **Windows or Windows Phone**.
    * Install [Node.js](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396867) and you'll also need to install the [Git command line tools](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396870) on Windows. Note that the default option for Git's install does not place the tools in the path. Select option to run the tools from the command prompt.
    * **Android** requires the [Java](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396871), [Ant](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396869) (Cordova < 5.0.0 only), and the [Android SDK](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533747) with the correct API level installed (usually API 21 or 22). Add environment variables for ANDROID_HOME pointing to your Android SDK install, ANT_HOME to your Ant install, and JAVA_HOME to your Java install. Add %ANT_HOME%\bin to your path.
    * **iOS** requires Xcode (from the Mac app store) and [Node.js](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396867)
    * See the [General CI tutorial](./general.md#depends) or [Install Dependencies Manually](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn771551.aspx) in MSDN for some information on what to install for a given platform.

2. **Update package.json in your project:** Add these lines to a package.json file in your project. Use [this version](https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-team-build/blob/master/samples/gulp/package.json) if you do not yet have a package.json file in the root of your project.

    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    {
      "devDependencies": {
        "gulp": "latest",
        "gulp-typescript": "latest",
        "taco-team-build": "http://aka.ms/tacoteambuild-rel"
      }
    }
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

3. **Add a gulpfile to your project:** Add [this Gulp file](https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-team-build/blob/master/samples/gulp/gulpfile.js) to the root of your project

	![gulpfile.js in project](media/tutorial-team-build-readme/quick-1.png)

4. **Try it locally:** Test out your build by dropping to the command line, and running the following commands from the root of your Cordova project (not the solution root):

    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    npm install
    node_modules\.bin\gulp
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    ...or on a Mac...

    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    npm install
    ./node_modules/.bin/gulp
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Gulp will now build Android, Windows, and Windows Phone 8 versions of your project when run from Windows and iOS when run from OSX. You can change this behavior by updating the following lines in gulpfile.js.

    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    var winPlatforms = ["android", "windows", "wp8"],
        osxPlatforms = ["ios"],
        ...
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

5. **Add to source control:** Assuming all goes well, add your project into the appropriate source code repository.

6. **Configure CI:** Next, configure your Team / CI server to fetch your project and execute the exact same commands mentioned above from the root of your Cordova project after fetching the source code. You can find detailed instructions for certain CI systems [below](#ci).

7. **Windows & OSX Build Agents:** Finally, configure an build agent / slave on both Windows and OSX so you can build for any platform. See the tutorials below for some specifics on how to configure your CI system.

That's it!

##Tutorials on Specific CI Systems
<a name="ci"></a>
For additional detail on configuring specific build systems, see the following detailed tutorials:

-  **[Getting Started with Cordova & TFS 2015 or Visual Studio Online](./tfs2015.md)**
-  **[Getting Started with Cordova & TFS 2013](./tfs2013.md)**
-  **[Getting Started with Cordova & Jenkins CI](./jenkins.md)**

The following articles also provide some additional details and troubleshooting information:

-  **[Getting Started with Cordova & Automating Builds with Gulp](../tutorial-gulp/gulp-ci.md)**
-  **[General Information on Building in a CI Environment](./general.md)**

## More Information
* [Read tutorials and learn about tips, tricks, and known issues](../cordova-docs-readme.md)
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)

Commit message:

Adding depreciated file labels
Adding depreciated file labels

tutorial-team-build/tutorial-team-build-readme.md, after:

<properties pageTitle="Build Cordova apps in a Team / Continuous Integration (CI) environment"
  description="Build Cordova apps in a Team / Continuous Integration (CI) environment"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />


# **NOTE:** This article is depreciated. Current articles can be found in the [Articles folder](/articles/).

# Build Cordova apps in a Team / Continuous Integration (CI) environment
**Note that this documentation applies to Visual Studio 2015 and does not apply to Visual Studio 2013 CTPs.**

With the release of Visual Studio 2015, you now have a number of options for how you can integrate Cordova apps with your favorite team / continuous integration (CI) server thanks to the fact that projects created in Visual Studio are standard [Apache Cordova Command Line Interface](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533773) (CLI) projects.

In this tutorial, we will cover how you can get your project running in nearly any CI system quickly using the [taco-team-build node module](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533736) and Gulp. Note that the method described here can be used with Visual Studio Online, TFS 2015, Jenkins, and others but will **not** work with TFS 2013. See [Tutorials on Specific CI Systems](#ci) for details.

##Walkthrough
To get going quickly, follow these steps:

1. **Install dependencies:** First, either install Visual Studio with the Tools for Apache Cordova option on your build server or simply install the pre-requisites for the platforms you are targeting separately. In brief:
    * Visual Studio itself is **only** required if you are building for **Windows or Windows Phone**.
    * Install [Node.js](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396867) and you'll also need to install the [Git command line tools](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396870) on Windows. Note that the default option for Git's install does not place the tools in the path. Select option to run the tools from the command prompt.
    * **Android** requires the [Java](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396871), [Ant](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396869) (Cordova < 5.0.0 only), and the [Android SDK](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533747) with the correct API level installed (usually API 21 or 22). Add environment variables for ANDROID_HOME pointing to your Android SDK install, ANT_HOME to your Ant install, and JAVA_HOME to your Java install. Add %ANT_HOME%\bin to your path.
    * **iOS** requires Xcode (from the Mac app store) and [Node.js](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=396867)
    * See the [General CI tutorial](./general.md#depends) or [Install Dependencies Manually](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn771551.aspx) in MSDN for some information on what to install for a given platform.

2. **Update package.json in your project:** Add these lines to a package.json file in your project. Use [this version](https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-team-build/blob/master/samples/gulp/package.json) if you do not yet have a package.json file in the root of your project.

    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    {
      "devDependencies": {
        "gulp": "latest",
        "gulp-typescript": "latest",
        "taco-team-build": "http://aka.ms/tacoteambuild-rel"
      }
    }
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

3. **Add a gulpfile to your project:** Add [this Gulp file](https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-team-build/blob/master/samples/gulp/gulpfile.js) to the root of your project

	![gulpfile.js in project](media/tutorial-team-build-readme/quick-1.png)

4. **Try it locally:** Test out your build by dropping to the command line, and running the following commands from the root of your Cordova project (not the solution root):

    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    npm install
    node_modules\.bin\gulp
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    ...or on a Mac...

    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    npm install
    ./node_modules/.bin/gulp
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Gulp will now build Android, Windows, and Windows Phone 8 versions of your project when run from Windows and iOS when run from OSX. You can change this behavior by updating the following lines in gulpfile.js.

    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    var winPlatforms = ["android", "windows", "wp8"],
        osxPlatforms = ["ios"],
        ...
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

5. **Add to source control:** Assuming all goes well, add your project into the appropriate source code repository.

6. **Configure CI:** Next, configure your Team / CI server to fetch your project and execute the exact same commands mentioned above from the root of your Cordova project after fetching the source code. You can find detailed instructions for certain CI systems [below](#ci).

7. **Windows & OSX Build Agents:** Finally, configure an build agent / slave on both Windows and OSX so you can build for any platform. See the tutorials below for some specifics on how to configure your CI system.

That's it!

##Tutorials on Specific CI Systems
<a name="ci"></a>
For additional detail on configuring specific build systems, see the following detailed tutorials:

-  **[Getting Started with Cordova & TFS 2015 or Visual Studio Online](./tfs2015.md)**
-  **[Getting Started with Cordova & TFS 2013](./tfs2013.md)**
-  **[Getting Started with Cordova & Jenkins CI](./jenkins.md)**

The following articles also provide some additional details and troubleshooting information:

-  **[Getting Started with Cordova & Automating Builds with Gulp](../tutorial-gulp/gulp-ci.md)**
-  **[General Information on Building in a CI Environment](./general.md)**

## More Information
* [Read tutorials and learn about tips, tricks, and known issues](../cordova-docs-readme.md)
* [Download samples from our Cordova Samples repository](http://github.com/Microsoft/cordova-samples)
* [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VSCordovaTools)
* [Visit our site http://aka.ms/cordova](http://aka.ms/cordova)
* [Ask for help on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/visual-studio-cordova)
