tips-and-workarounds/ios/ios-plugin-symlink-fix/tips-and-workarounds-ios-ios-plugin-symlink-fix-readme.md, before:

<properties pageTitle="Cordova plugin Symlink fix for iOS plugins with custom frameworks"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services="" 
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />

#Cordova plugin Symlink fix for iOS plugins with custom frameworks

License: MIT

This is a hook designed to fix custom iOS frameworks contained within Cordova plugins when their symlinks are broken. (Ex: Those found on the [Facebook Connect plugin](https://github.com/wizcorp/phonegap-facebook-plugin)).

Symlinks can break when the plugin is either downloaded on Windows and then moved to an OSX machine or when the plugin is pulled from the Cordova plugin repo / npm without the symlinks being present in the archive [as described in this Cordova bug](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CB-6092).

To install it:

1. Grab the js file and drop it a "hooks" folder in your project root
2. Update config.xml with the following:

  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  <hook type="before_compile" src="hooks/hook-symlink-fix.js" />
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

3. Remove the ios platform if present (or the plugin)
4. Re-add

Plugins should now be fixed.

Alternativley you can install the [Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova CLI Support Plugin](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533753) which encapsulates this functionality.

Commit message:

Adding depreciated file labels
Adding depreciated file labels

tips-and-workarounds/ios/ios-plugin-symlink-fix/tips-and-workarounds-ios-ios-plugin-symlink-fix-readme.md, after:

<properties pageTitle="Cordova plugin Symlink fix for iOS plugins with custom frameworks"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services="" 
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />


# **NOTE:** This article is depreciated. Current articles can be found in the [Articles folder](/articles/).

#Cordova plugin Symlink fix for iOS plugins with custom frameworks

License: MIT

This is a hook designed to fix custom iOS frameworks contained within Cordova plugins when their symlinks are broken. (Ex: Those found on the [Facebook Connect plugin](https://github.com/wizcorp/phonegap-facebook-plugin)).

Symlinks can break when the plugin is either downloaded on Windows and then moved to an OSX machine or when the plugin is pulled from the Cordova plugin repo / npm without the symlinks being present in the archive [as described in this Cordova bug](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CB-6092).

To install it:

1. Grab the js file and drop it a "hooks" folder in your project root
2. Update config.xml with the following:

  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  <hook type="before_compile" src="hooks/hook-symlink-fix.js" />
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

3. Remove the ios platform if present (or the plugin)
4. Re-add

Plugins should now be fixed.

Alternativley you can install the [Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova CLI Support Plugin](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=533753) which encapsulates this functionality.
