known-issues/known-issues-plugin-install.md, before:

<properties pageTitle="Known Issues - Plugins Installation"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />

#**Known Issues - Plugins Installation**
This article covers known issues related to Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova and installing plugins.




##**Git sourced plugins will not install**
Git sourced plugins will not install properly if you have not installed the [Git command line tools](http://www.git-scm.com/downloads) and have them in your system path. During installation of the Git tools, select the "Use Git from the Windows Command Prompt" option or add the "bin" folder from the Git install location to your path and restart VS. (Usually "C:\Program Files (x86)\Git\bin").




##**Git sourced plugins will not install with Cordova 5.1.1 only**
Cordova 5.1.1 has a bug that can cause plugins installed from a Git repo to fail with the error "Error: EXDEV, cross-device link not permitted" if the project is on a different drive than your temp folder.

See [tips and workarounds](../tips-and-workarounds/general/tips-and-workarounds-general-readme.md#plugin-xml) for information on adding plugins not in the config designer from either the Cordova plugin repository or npm. If you must add a Git version of the plugin, either move your project to the same drive as your temp folder when installing or you can instead download a copy, unzip it, and add the plugin from the filesystem.


##**Plugin with variables not working**
Due to a Cordova issue with Cordova 4.3.0 and 4.3.1, you can run into problems with plugin variables in Cordova < 5.0.0. Plugin variable information is lost if you install the "plugin" before the "platform" which can happen depending on your workflow. They do, however, function in Cordova 5.1.1 which you can use with VS 2015. Follow these steps to use a plugin with variables:

 1. Remove the plugins with the variables via the config designer.

 2. Update to Cordova 5.1.1 via the config designer (Platforms > Cordova CLI)

 3. Re-add your plugin via "Plugins" tab in the config.xml designer



##**Old versions of Cordova plugins due to Cordova plugin ID changes**
A significant change occurred with Cordova 5.0.0+ that also altered the IDs of many core Cordova plugins. The Visual Studio 2015 config.xml designer uses the old IDs (ex: org.apache.cordova.camera not cordova-plugin-camera) with Cordova 4.3.1 and below since this version of the Cordova  < 5.0.0 do not support npm.

If you update your Cordova version to 5.1.1 or later the config.xml designer will automatically switch to using the new IDs. If you do not see this behavior, update Tools for Apache Cordova. Some very early adopters may not see some of the improvments described in this document until after you update since a small post-RTM update enabled this functionality. You will get an update notification soon prompting you to update or you can click "Install Tools for Apache Cordova" from the Apache Cordova templates section when creating a new project. Be sure to remove plugins using older IDs from your project before adding the updated plugins with the new IDs.



##**TypeError: Request path contains unescaped characters**
When building or installing a plugin you may encounter this error if you are using a proxy with certain versions of Node.js and Cordova after a "npm http GET". This is a Cordova issue and the simplest workaround is to downgrade [Node.js 0.10.29](http://nodejs.org/dist/v0.10.29/). This will be resolved in a future version of Cordova. See [tips and workarounds](../tips-and-workarounds/general/tips-and-workarounds-general-readme.md#cordovaproxy) for additional details.



##**Frequent ECONRESET errors from npm when using VPN or proxy**
Is your development machine behind a firewall/proxy server?  If so, you might be running into plugin installation issues because Node.js can experience intermittent issues connecting to the npm repository via SSL with certain versions of Node.js. You can resolve this issue by configuring npm to connect to the registry using straight HTTP instead using this command from the command prompt:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
npm config set registry http://registry.npmjs.org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



##**Errors from npm related to permission problems**
If you installed Visual Studio or Node.js running as an administrator, you can run into problems where npm attempts to install npm packages under "C:\Program Files (x86)\node.js". You will typically see errors in the Output Window similar to this one:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
npm ERR! error rolling back error : EPERM, unlink 'C:\Program Files (x86)\nodejs\vs-tac-cli.cmd'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To resolve this issue you can re-install Node.js or reconfigured npm using these commands from the command prompt and restarting Visual Studio:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
npm config set prefix %APPDATA%\npm
npm config set cache %APPDATA%\npm-cache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Commit message:

Adding depreciated file labels
Adding depreciated file labels

known-issues/known-issues-plugin-install.md, after:

<properties pageTitle="Known Issues - Plugins Installation"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />


# **NOTE:** This article is depreciated. Current articles can be found in the [Articles folder](/articles/).

#**Known Issues - Plugins Installation**
This article covers known issues related to Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova and installing plugins.




##**Git sourced plugins will not install**
Git sourced plugins will not install properly if you have not installed the [Git command line tools](http://www.git-scm.com/downloads) and have them in your system path. During installation of the Git tools, select the "Use Git from the Windows Command Prompt" option or add the "bin" folder from the Git install location to your path and restart VS. (Usually "C:\Program Files (x86)\Git\bin").




##**Git sourced plugins will not install with Cordova 5.1.1 only**
Cordova 5.1.1 has a bug that can cause plugins installed from a Git repo to fail with the error "Error: EXDEV, cross-device link not permitted" if the project is on a different drive than your temp folder.

See [tips and workarounds](../tips-and-workarounds/general/tips-and-workarounds-general-readme.md#plugin-xml) for information on adding plugins not in the config designer from either the Cordova plugin repository or npm. If you must add a Git version of the plugin, either move your project to the same drive as your temp folder when installing or you can instead download a copy, unzip it, and add the plugin from the filesystem.


##**Plugin with variables not working**
Due to a Cordova issue with Cordova 4.3.0 and 4.3.1, you can run into problems with plugin variables in Cordova < 5.0.0. Plugin variable information is lost if you install the "plugin" before the "platform" which can happen depending on your workflow. They do, however, function in Cordova 5.1.1 which you can use with VS 2015. Follow these steps to use a plugin with variables:

 1. Remove the plugins with the variables via the config designer.

 2. Update to Cordova 5.1.1 via the config designer (Platforms > Cordova CLI)

 3. Re-add your plugin via "Plugins" tab in the config.xml designer



##**Old versions of Cordova plugins due to Cordova plugin ID changes**
A significant change occurred with Cordova 5.0.0+ that also altered the IDs of many core Cordova plugins. The Visual Studio 2015 config.xml designer uses the old IDs (ex: org.apache.cordova.camera not cordova-plugin-camera) with Cordova 4.3.1 and below since this version of the Cordova  < 5.0.0 do not support npm.

If you update your Cordova version to 5.1.1 or later the config.xml designer will automatically switch to using the new IDs. If you do not see this behavior, update Tools for Apache Cordova. Some very early adopters may not see some of the improvments described in this document until after you update since a small post-RTM update enabled this functionality. You will get an update notification soon prompting you to update or you can click "Install Tools for Apache Cordova" from the Apache Cordova templates section when creating a new project. Be sure to remove plugins using older IDs from your project before adding the updated plugins with the new IDs.



##**TypeError: Request path contains unescaped characters**
When building or installing a plugin you may encounter this error if you are using a proxy with certain versions of Node.js and Cordova after a "npm http GET". This is a Cordova issue and the simplest workaround is to downgrade [Node.js 0.10.29](http://nodejs.org/dist/v0.10.29/). This will be resolved in a future version of Cordova. See [tips and workarounds](../tips-and-workarounds/general/tips-and-workarounds-general-readme.md#cordovaproxy) for additional details.



##**Frequent ECONRESET errors from npm when using VPN or proxy**
Is your development machine behind a firewall/proxy server?  If so, you might be running into plugin installation issues because Node.js can experience intermittent issues connecting to the npm repository via SSL with certain versions of Node.js. You can resolve this issue by configuring npm to connect to the registry using straight HTTP instead using this command from the command prompt:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
npm config set registry http://registry.npmjs.org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



##**Errors from npm related to permission problems**
If you installed Visual Studio or Node.js running as an administrator, you can run into problems where npm attempts to install npm packages under "C:\Program Files (x86)\node.js". You will typically see errors in the Output Window similar to this one:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
npm ERR! error rolling back error : EPERM, unlink 'C:\Program Files (x86)\nodejs\vs-tac-cli.cmd'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To resolve this issue you can re-install Node.js or reconfigured npm using these commands from the command prompt and restarting Visual Studio:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
npm config set prefix %APPDATA%\npm
npm config set cache %APPDATA%\npm-cache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
