known-issues/known-issues-windows.md, before:

<properties pageTitle="Known Issues - Windows"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />

#**Known Issues - Windows**
This article covers known issues related to Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova 2015 when building or deploying to a Windows 8.0, 8.1, Windows Phone 8.1 or any Windows 10 device or emulator.

##**Windows 10 version options and emulators do not appear after installing Windows 10 Tools in Visual Studio 2015 RC or RTM and selecting Cordova 5.1.1 or later** 

Due to a bug, you will need to build once for Windows or Windows Phone 8.1 using Cordova 5.1.1 or later for these options to be available. Simply build once and then select Windows 10. We are actively working on a fix.

##**Version specified in "Windows" section of config designer or during "Create App Packages" wizard not used with Cordova 5.1.1** 

Due to a Cordova issue, you will need to update the version number in the "Common" section of the config designer to cause the version number to update properly. We are working with the Cordova community on a fix.

##**"appxbundle" is not generated by "Create App Packages" wizard for Windows or Windows Phone in Visual Studio 2015 RC or earlier** 

This issue has been resolved in the RTM version of Visual Studio 2015 by selecting "Always" for the "Generate app bundle" option. For earlier versions you can take advantage of the [MakeAppx command line utiltiy](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=618904) as follows:

1. After running the "Create App Packages" wizard, copy your app's ".appx" files from the appropriate AppPackages sub-folders in your project (ignoring the WinJS appx file if present) into a new folder

2. Open the Visual Studio Developer Command Prompt and go to the folder you placed the appx files

3. Execute the following command replacing &lt;name&gt; with a name of your choice:

	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
	MakeAppx bundle /d . /p <name>.appxbundle
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

##**Expired Temporary Certificate** 

Due to a coding error, the Cordova Windows platform in Cordova **previous to 4.1.2** has a temporary key in it that expired on 11/11/2014. To work around this issue, update your Cordova version or [download this file](https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=cordova-windows.git;a=blob;f=template/CordovaApp_TemporaryKey.pfx;h=90d7ab2208ce170d176a2ac8a60eb22fbc1cbf7a;hb=refs/tags/3.7.1) and place it in your Tools for Apache Cordova project in following location:

* CTP 1 or 2: res/cert/windows8/CordovaApp_TemporaryKey.pfx
* CTP 3: res/native/windows/CordovaApp_TemporaryKey.pfx

You can read more about the issue on the [MS Open Tech blog](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=518810).

##**Incorrect Application Id & Publisher Name after creating app packages in VS 2013** 

While trying to associate a Cordova app with Windows store using Visual Studio 2013 and CTP3.1, the AppxManifest.xml doesn’t get updated with the appropriate Application Id & publisher name. This has been fixed as of VS 2015 RC. To fix this issue in VS 2013, install the workaround plugin from [this site](https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-tricks/tree/master/plugin-windows-package-fix) and try building your application again.

Commit message:

Adding depreciated file labels
Adding depreciated file labels

known-issues/known-issues-windows.md, after:

<properties pageTitle="Known Issues - Windows"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />


# **NOTE:** This article is depreciated. Current articles can be found in the [Articles folder](/articles/).

#**Known Issues - Windows**
This article covers known issues related to Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova 2015 when building or deploying to a Windows 8.0, 8.1, Windows Phone 8.1 or any Windows 10 device or emulator.

##**Windows 10 version options and emulators do not appear after installing Windows 10 Tools in Visual Studio 2015 RC or RTM and selecting Cordova 5.1.1 or later** 

Due to a bug, you will need to build once for Windows or Windows Phone 8.1 using Cordova 5.1.1 or later for these options to be available. Simply build once and then select Windows 10. We are actively working on a fix.

##**Version specified in "Windows" section of config designer or during "Create App Packages" wizard not used with Cordova 5.1.1** 

Due to a Cordova issue, you will need to update the version number in the "Common" section of the config designer to cause the version number to update properly. We are working with the Cordova community on a fix.

##**"appxbundle" is not generated by "Create App Packages" wizard for Windows or Windows Phone in Visual Studio 2015 RC or earlier** 

This issue has been resolved in the RTM version of Visual Studio 2015 by selecting "Always" for the "Generate app bundle" option. For earlier versions you can take advantage of the [MakeAppx command line utiltiy](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=618904) as follows:

1. After running the "Create App Packages" wizard, copy your app's ".appx" files from the appropriate AppPackages sub-folders in your project (ignoring the WinJS appx file if present) into a new folder

2. Open the Visual Studio Developer Command Prompt and go to the folder you placed the appx files

3. Execute the following command replacing &lt;name&gt; with a name of your choice:

	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
	MakeAppx bundle /d . /p <name>.appxbundle
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

##**Expired Temporary Certificate** 

Due to a coding error, the Cordova Windows platform in Cordova **previous to 4.1.2** has a temporary key in it that expired on 11/11/2014. To work around this issue, update your Cordova version or [download this file](https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=cordova-windows.git;a=blob;f=template/CordovaApp_TemporaryKey.pfx;h=90d7ab2208ce170d176a2ac8a60eb22fbc1cbf7a;hb=refs/tags/3.7.1) and place it in your Tools for Apache Cordova project in following location:

* CTP 1 or 2: res/cert/windows8/CordovaApp_TemporaryKey.pfx
* CTP 3: res/native/windows/CordovaApp_TemporaryKey.pfx

You can read more about the issue on the [MS Open Tech blog](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=518810).

##**Incorrect Application Id & Publisher Name after creating app packages in VS 2013** 

While trying to associate a Cordova app with Windows store using Visual Studio 2013 and CTP3.1, the AppxManifest.xml doesn’t get updated with the appropriate Application Id & publisher name. This has been fixed as of VS 2015 RC. To fix this issue in VS 2013, install the workaround plugin from [this site](https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-tricks/tree/master/plugin-windows-package-fix) and try building your application again.
