known-issues/known-issues-vs2013.md, before:

<properties pageTitle="Known Issues - CTP 3/3.1 for Visual Studio 2013"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />

#**Known Issues - CTP 3/3.1 for Visual Studio 2013**
This article covers known issues specific to Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova CTP3/3.1 and Visual Studio 2013.

##**Missing iOS Icons and Splashscreens** 

When using version 0.2.8 or higher of vs-mda-remote, you should add the following XML elements to your config.xml to ensure your icons and splash screens are picked up properly.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  <platform name="ios">
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-60-3x.png" width="180" height="180" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-60.png" width="60" height="60" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-60-2x.png" width="120" height="120" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-76.png" width="76" height="76" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-76-2x.png" width="152" height="152" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-40.png" width="40" height="40" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-40-2x.png" width="80" height="80" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-57.png" width="57" height="57" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-57-2x.png" width="114" height="114" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-72.png" width="72" height="72" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-72-2x.png" width="144" height="144" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-small.png" width="29" height="29" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-small-2x.png" width="58" height="58" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-50.png" width="50" height="50" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-50-2x.png" width="100" height="100" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-portrait.png" width="320" height="480" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-portrait-2x.png" width="640" height="960" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-ipad-portrait.png" width="768" height="1024" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-ipad-portrait-2x.png" width="1536" height="2048" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-ipad-landscape.png" width="1024" height="768" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-ipad-landscape-2x.png" width="2048" height="1536" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-568h-2x.png" width="640" height="1136" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-portrait-667h.png" width="750" height="1334" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-portrait-736h.png" width="1242" height="2208" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-landscape-736h.png" width="2208" height="1242" />
  </platform>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**(You can edit the contents of config.xml by right clicking on it and selecting "View Code".)**

Alternatively you can install version 0.2.7 instead by using the following command:

    npm install -g vs-mda-remote@0.2.7

##**Incorrect Application Id & Publisher Name after creating app packages** 

While trying to associate a Cordova app with Windows store using Visual Studio 13 and CTP3.1, the AppxManifest.xml doesn’t get updated with the appropriate Application Id & publisher name. We have fixed this issue in VS2015 RC. To fix this issue in VS 2013, install the plugin from [https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-tricks/tree/master/plugin-windows-package-fix](https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-tricks/tree/master/plugin-windows-package-fix) and try building your application again.

Commit message:

Adding depreciated file labels
Adding depreciated file labels

known-issues/known-issues-vs2013.md, after:

<properties pageTitle="Known Issues - CTP 3/3.1 for Visual Studio 2013"
  description="This is an article on bower tutorial"
  services=""
  documentationCenter=""
  authors="bursteg" />


# **NOTE:** This article is depreciated. Current articles can be found in the [Articles folder](/articles/).

#**Known Issues - CTP 3/3.1 for Visual Studio 2013**
This article covers known issues specific to Visual Studio Tools for Apache Cordova CTP3/3.1 and Visual Studio 2013.

##**Missing iOS Icons and Splashscreens** 

When using version 0.2.8 or higher of vs-mda-remote, you should add the following XML elements to your config.xml to ensure your icons and splash screens are picked up properly.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  <platform name="ios">
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-60-3x.png" width="180" height="180" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-60.png" width="60" height="60" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-60-2x.png" width="120" height="120" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-76.png" width="76" height="76" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-76-2x.png" width="152" height="152" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-40.png" width="40" height="40" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-40-2x.png" width="80" height="80" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-57.png" width="57" height="57" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-57-2x.png" width="114" height="114" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-72.png" width="72" height="72" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-72-2x.png" width="144" height="144" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-small.png" width="29" height="29" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-small-2x.png" width="58" height="58" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-50.png" width="50" height="50" />
    <icon src="res/icons/ios/icon-50-2x.png" width="100" height="100" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-portrait.png" width="320" height="480" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-portrait-2x.png" width="640" height="960" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-ipad-portrait.png" width="768" height="1024" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-ipad-portrait-2x.png" width="1536" height="2048" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-ipad-landscape.png" width="1024" height="768" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-ipad-landscape-2x.png" width="2048" height="1536" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-568h-2x.png" width="640" height="1136" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-portrait-667h.png" width="750" height="1334" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-portrait-736h.png" width="1242" height="2208" />
    <splash src="res/screens/ios/screen-iphone-landscape-736h.png" width="2208" height="1242" />
  </platform>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**(You can edit the contents of config.xml by right clicking on it and selecting "View Code".)**

Alternatively you can install version 0.2.7 instead by using the following command:

    npm install -g vs-mda-remote@0.2.7

##**Incorrect Application Id & Publisher Name after creating app packages** 

While trying to associate a Cordova app with Windows store using Visual Studio 13 and CTP3.1, the AppxManifest.xml doesn’t get updated with the appropriate Application Id & publisher name. We have fixed this issue in VS2015 RC. To fix this issue in VS 2013, install the plugin from [https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-tricks/tree/master/plugin-windows-package-fix](https://github.com/Chuxel/taco-tricks/tree/master/plugin-windows-package-fix) and try building your application again.
